Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.an artificial language that can be used to control the behavior of a computer.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.





What is IDE?
A.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.intellij,visual studio,eclipse.



Explain the entire java life cycle.
the three main stages are editing the program, compiling the source code, and executing the byte code.
what is class?
class is a template used to create objects
What is object?
object is an instance of a java class
What is the entry point of an application?
the entry point is where the main method is called
Why main is static?
it is static so that the jvm can call it without creating an instance of the class containing the main method
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
the object class is the superclass of all classes
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path is required to set the path environment to run the executable and classpath is required by the java compiler and jvm
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
they help in managing the scope of packages,classes,methods,etc.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
oop is object oriented programming. oop concepts are inheritance,abstraction,encapsulation,and polymorphism
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
a package in java is used to group related classes.it imports java.lang by default
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API is application programming interface.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
java doesnt support multiple inheritances, one reason is the complexity of it and it can lead to the "diamond problem"
What is method overloading and when it happens?
method overloading is when you create multiple methods of the same name in the same class and all methods work differently
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
exceptions is when there is an error in the code and you tell the computer how to handle it. one way is the try catch method
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
static keyword is a non access modifier used for methods and attributes.it is used without having to create an object of a class
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final is used to define something that can only be assigned once. once given a value,it always contains the same value
What is final, finally and finalize?
final you cant assign new value,finalize is a method to perform cleanup, and finally is a block used to ensure that a section is always executed
What is a constructor ? a constructor is something thats used to intialize an object
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes we can
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
if there is no declaration,it uses a no argument instructor called default constructor
What is "this" keyword in java ?
it refers to the current object
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
it refers to superclass parent objects to call superclass methods and superclass constructor
What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine
Is JVM platform independent?
yes it is
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
java archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JVM is the virtual machine itself and jdk is a software developement kit that develops apps in java
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
jre identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution and jvm is a subclass of jre
What is compile time and run time?
compile time is the period when the programming code is converted to machine code. runtime is the period of time when a program is running after compile time
What is heap?
it is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
string is immutable whereas stringbuffer and stringbuilder are mutable
What is Singleton class?
singleton is a design pattern that ensures a class can only have one obejct
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
serialization is to transform an object into a byte stream. deserialization allows us to recreate an object from a byte stream
when to use transient variable in java?
used to indicate that a field shuold not be a part of the serialization process
Difference between while and do..while loop?
while loop the condition is verified first then program is ran and do while checks it after
What is Enum?
data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined consstant
What is Iterator?
object used to cycle through arguments or elements in a collecction
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
because of security,synchronization,concurrency,caching,and class loading
What is constructor chaining in Java?
calling a sequence of constructors
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up collection
What is JIT stands for?
just in time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
where java objects reside.the heap is created when the jvm starts up.when the heap becomes full,garbage is collected
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
no
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
heap memory is used by all the parts of the app but stack memory is used by one thread
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
reflection allows an executing java program to examine and manipulate internal properties
what is multithreading in java?
it is when the app can create a small unit of tasks to execute in parallel
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
capability to control the access of multiple threads to a shared resource
What is Framework?
pre built libraries and modules that provide a set of common functionalities
What are the testing Framework available in java?
selenium
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
junit is open source and may be used to write and trigger tests
What are the dependencies for this project?
dependency is when a java class uses an instance of this class
what is dependency injection in java?
enables you to turn regular java classes into managed objects
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
static uses type information for binding while dynamic binding uses objects









