Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.
data structures make it easy for users to access and work with the data they need

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
searching,sorting,insertion,deletion
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
they are used in graphics,simulation,numerical analysis
what is an Array?
a container object that holds a number of values of a single type
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
arraylist has only object type data entries and not primitive data types
what is LinkedList?
a linkedlist is a dynamic data structure whose size increases as you add elements
How is an Array different from Linked List?
an array is grouping of data elements of equivalent data type, a linked list is a group of entities called a node
what is queue?
linear data structure where you can handle an ordered collection of elements
what is stack?
what is FIFO and LIFO?
two techinques of maintaining data in a data structure
what is the order of complexity?
The most common complexity classes are (in ascending order of complexity): O(1), O(log n), O(n), O(n log n), O(n²).
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
linear search algorithm
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
when the search item appears at the end of the list
what is tree in data structure?
a tree is non linear data structure where data objects are in a hierarchical relationship
what is graph in data structure?
mainly stores connected data
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
hashmap is non syncronized and not thread safe, hashtable is the opposite
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
DBMS, network data model
How HashMap works in java?
stores entries into multiple single linked list,called bins.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
runtime exception in java that occurs when an array is accessed with an illegal index
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
you can use for loop and copy elements of one to another
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
technique of making a function call itself
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
in linear,the data elements connect sequentially, in non linear the data elements connect hierarchiacally
What is Big-(O)-notation?
describe the set of all algorithms that run no worse than a certain speed
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
heap sort,insertion sort,selection sort,bubble sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


